<div class="scrollable">
<p style="font-size: .8rem">Poverty and inequality often have ill effects on health and personal wellbeing, with the potential of creating a vicious cycle in which income disparities lead to deteriorating health, and this in turn perpetuates inequality. Health has been on the development agenda at least since the 1980s. Economists, sociologists and other social scientists have documented that people’s labor force participation and productivity depends on their health status. However, many people living in poverty in this labor force cannot access appropriate healthcare to function due to exorbitant fees and the disparity of hospitals in both the private and public sector.</p>
<p style="font-size: .8rem">The preceding analysis of the evolving global map of poverty and inequality, its manifestations in the labor market, healthcare and the financial system, and its political, social, cultural and legal roots provide the foundations for an agenda focused on effective ameliorative actions. There are many tools that can, and should be used, to address inequalities; such as the law which can be used as a lever in promoting social and economic development. The debate about the virtues and the costs of different interventions and programs to provide equal healthcare for all is rather intense.
Patterns of poverty and inequality have complex origins in culture and the social structure, and are also driven by shifting dynamics in the labor market, the healthcare sector and the financial system. Political shifts, especially regarding the role of the government in the economy and the welfare state, have fundamentally redrawn the global map of poverty and inequality, and hold the key to the solution of some of the most worrying trends, especially those having to do with children, disconnected youth (those out of work and not in school), and future inter-generational conflicts over scarce resources in health sector. Solutions to the problem of poverty and inequality range from those focused on a wholesale transformation of the social structure to those advocating opportunity-driven, cost-effective interventions, especially at the crucial points in time when people make life transitions across educational levels, from school to work, or from job to job. We also discuss the virtues of an approach based on development goals compared to one based on standards, and the promise of entrepreneurship as a path out of poverty. We make a series of specific recommendations aimed at ensuring that poverty and inequality enter a new phase of decline around the world.</p>
<p style="font-size: .8rem">Firstly, it is unthinkable that the state should not be required to ensure that health services were available to all. Simultaneously, the state cannot guarantee its people the right of the best care possible because that would be unaffordable.
It comes down to this: we can try to say that that healthcare is a right, but we cannot do so without being obliged to be explicit about exactly what it is that we believe we have a right to. Whatever it is that we might end up having a right to, it will not be the best healthcare available or even the standard of health care that we might aspire to. In reality, individuals will have to fund that gap. Therefore we urge members of society to unite and help find permanent solutions to this societal issue. Our desire as a team is to establish resolutions which will prevent the constant degradation of the less privileged in our society.</p>
</div>
